---
sort: 1
title: Bento Glossary
---


# Bento Glossary
**Apollo Client**: A library for JavaScript that is used to manage both local and remote data with GraphQL.

**Arm**: An Arm of a clinical trial is a group or subgroup of participants that receives a specific intervention/treatment, or no intervention, according to the trial's protocol. Within the Bento Framework an Arm is considered to represent a subgroup of a Program entity type. The Arm Detail Page template can be used to display details of Projects or Studies that belong to a given program.

**Bento Custodian**: The Bento Custodian a role, within an organization, that is responsible for the building and maintaining a data sharing platform.

**Bento Data Model**: The Bento Data Model is an abstract graphical model that organizes data generated by biological research programs and clinical trials. It models key data entities, their properties and their relationships.

**Bento Framework**: The Bento Framework consists of a set of reusable and customizable software components for the building of data sharing platforms.

**Cypher Query**: A database query that is written in Cypher (query language for Neo4j) and runs on Neo4j database.

**Database Module**: A term used to collectively describe the Neo4j database and GraphQL-Neo4j plugin.

**ETL (Extract, Transform and Load)**: A data integration process referring to three distinct but interrelated steps (Extract, Transform and Load) that is used to synthesize data from multiple sources to build a dataset.

**GraphQL API**: The API (Application Programming Interface) used to handle GraphQL formatted queries.

**GraphQL API framework**: The framework used to create the backend interface to handle GraphQL formatted queries.

**Neo4J**: A native graph database, built from the ground up to leverage not only data but also data relationships.

**Program**: A broad framework of goals to be achieved. The Bento Data Model includes "Program" as a key entity type.

**Project**: Any specifically defined piece of work that is undertaken or attempted to meet a single requirement. The Bento Data Model includes a "Project" entity type as a subunit of the "Program" entity type.

**REST API**: An acronym for REpresentational State Transfer. It is an architectural style for distributed hypermedia systems and was first presented by Roy Fielding in 2000 in his famous dissertation.

**Study**: A detailed examination, analysis, or critical inspection of a subject designed to discover facts about it. The Bento Data Model includes a "Study" entity type as a subunit of the "Program" entity type.

